All right, so we're on to then
the mobile portion of the navigation and
remember I said we were just
going to set these up as buttons.
I know the default these days is really to
always set your navigation as a hamburger
button.
There's nothing wrong with that you can
definitely do a hamburger button and
I have covered that in
the advanced CSS layouts course.
If you want to check that out and
how you can make a hamburger button with
just CSS without involving any JavaScript.
But for today, let's make it with buttons
because this is a layouts course.
And we can lay out some buttons here,
we don't have that many navigation items.
And they're kind of fun, they add a little
bit of extra color to the mobile display.
Just scrolling up a little bit here
I have I have two nav UL declarations
here I think I did this because
this nav UL this part of it.
Is kind of something that we always do and
then this is the Flexbox portion of it.
Absolutely you can combine these into a
single style there's no particular reason
to declare the same thing twice.
So there we go we haven't have one style
with all of these elements in place.
And then we'll go on to our our nav LI, so
nav LI these are just sort of
in general for all of our LI.
I'm going to have two buttons per line so
we'll set our flex basis to 48% and
we'll set our margin bottom to 0.5 rem.
That'll give us a little bit of space in
between our buttons, there at the bottom.
Okay, so
let's check what we've got here so far.
And I'm gonna scrunch up the screen
a little bit more to get us to the mobile
kind of layout.
So there we are, you can see that
we have our logo on its own line,
which we definitely want here too.
And we have all of our various
hamburger button navigation items here.
Okay, so
let's start to turn things red with
white text, so to do that, we'll add here,
on our nav a So
I initially set this to be color one,
I'm gonna change that now to white, so
we have white text and
I'll set our background color.
To think it's color ten, nice red so
a nice red button with a white
text on top of it, okay.
So then to this will also add
some padding of 0.5 rem and
we'll add a border radius.
Of five pixels, this will match the other
in the collections portion of the webpage
where we had borders.
We had a five pixel radius there and so
we're going to add it here as
well to keep it consistent.
One of the signs of an amateur designer
is to have slightly different curves all
over the webpage.
So try to keep them consistent if
you're gonna make use of them.
And then finally text,
align, center, okay.
Let's see what that looks like.
So great, we have red backgrounds for
all of our buttons, right?
Exactly what we wanted but
it's also given us a red background on
our SVG which is transparent by default.
So now it's time to override that And
so here We can say our
nav li first child a,
will have a background
color of transparent.
And that'll fix that problem
very very nicely much better.
Okay, then we want a hover state for
these.
And so nav a:hover,
background color of var
Color one So
they'll give us our black and
a color var color five,
so yellow text on our black background.
So let's test that.
So now when I mouse over with buttons,
those all look.
Nice big contrast the changes and so forth
when I mouse over the wall of wonder here,
we do not get that same hover effect,
why is that?
Well, it has to do with specificity,
believe it or not right here on
line 100 notice it says nav li first child
a and that is a more specific style.
It contains a pseudo class in it,
the first child plus the a then
the nav a:hover declaration.
And since we are talking
about the a stage,
this is actually overwriting the a state
for all of the states have the link.
Link visited focus hover active and so
when we try the more generic
nav a:hover over our logo.
It's actually overridden by this
transparent declaration that comes
slightly earlier, which is fine.
We really don't want to have a black cover
on our logo anyway so it's kinda magic.
But that is the cascade and
effect there cascade and specificity.
All right, so I think we've got our whole
nav bar together at that point then, so
we have a nav bar that changes
radically over the website.
Here we are a desktop logo in
the middle navigation spaced
evenly on either side as
we start to pull this in.
At some point here,
we want to do the break and
our text wraps on to the next line.
And then, when we push this
closer a little bit more,
we wind up with buttons here on mobile.
And those are fully
clickable mobile areas and
notice that when you hover
over the edges of the button.
It not only changes the hover state but
we also still have a clickable area,
that's because we put
that display block on ra.
Really important for
making good usable links on mobile,
okay.Any questions on headers and
nav bars?
>> On hover on mobile those
states wouldn't be seen or
seen quickly before moving
to the linked page.
Is there a way for
the hover to be seen utilized on mobile?
With touch interaction you're not
really going gonna see hover?
>> Right, yeah, absolutely true
on with a touch device of course
there is no hover state on mobile.
And so that's just the way it is and but
you can put in the hover
state here on mobile.
People may have, for example,
I was using an apple pencil earlier.
Maybe you have that kind of device
a stylus device with a small screen,
which might allow you to
do some kind of hover.
It's still on those devices but
if you can't see it,
it's one of those wonderful graceful
degradation kind of things.
You don't have to see the hover state
in order for those buttons to work but
I'm sorry, there's no way that
you can hover with your finger.
You are absolutely right and
we don't have a CSS state for
an equivalent type of effects for touch.